Nkomo Smith

    As technology advances, the ways humans communicate has drastically changed. When mobile
phones and computers weren't invented, people comunicated with each other face to face. Ever since
these inventions, people have started to communicate with each other on social media apps including
facebook, snapchat, and twitter. Communication over social media is currently so popular that when
people have the oppurtunity to communicate face to face instead they use technology to communicate.
    One positive effect of the changes in the current forms of communication is that social media
makes it easier to communicate. Before social media and cellphones that only was to communicate
with people was over the home phone, sending an email, letter, or fax, and meeting them in real
life. But with the invention of social media and cellphones, humans can communicate anywhere and
anytime by making a call or messaging them. Another positivee effect of changes in the ways humans
communicate is an increase of sharing information. For example, if an important event is coming up,
you are able to quickly share the information around by posting it on social media. Communication
has positively improved because of the amount of users. According to The Global Digital Report
2018, the number of social media users worldwide is currently 3.196 billion and up 13 percent
year-on-year. This large number of social media users means communication is very easy since so
many people use popular social media. Social media has positively changed the way humans
communicate.
    However social media and the new forms of communication has had many negative effects. Humans
social skills have taken a drastic hit. With social media being over used by many people, humans
don't communicate with each other face to face a lot anymore. This isn't good more many students
for job interviews which require some social skills. Another negative effect of the changes in the
current forms of communication is the privacy concerns of using social media. With Facebook in the
news about selling people's information to outside companys, maybe communicating using social
media isn't the best idea. Another negative about the new forms of communication is that whatever
you say stays on social media forever. This means the users of social media must be very careful
when they are posting something because it will be on social media forever. The new forms of
communication have had both negative and positive effects on humans.

Sources:
https://www.smartinsights.com/social-media-marketing/social-media-strategy/new-global-social-media-research/
https://fowmedia.com/social-media-changed-communicate/
https://www.cnn.com/2014/01/31/tech/social-media/facebook-changes/index.html